{
    "title": "Research",
    "sidebar": true,
    "weight": "2"
}

<p class="message">
	My research considers the role of ideas about work in shaping American democratic thought. In particular, I focus on the writing of key figures in the Progressive Era. Looking at Jane Addams, Herbert Croly, John Dewey, and W.E.B. Du Bois, I argue that work was central to their individual conceptions of democracy. Although this aspect was shared in common among these thinkers, I argue that each elaborated a distinct work ethic. Far from a monolithic concept, the work ethic is heterogeneous. Far from being the province of any one ideological commitment, it can support a range of political positions. 
</p>

## [Herbert Croly on Work and Democracy](http://www.palgrave-journals.com/polity/journal/v44/n1/abs/pol201116a.html)

This article explores the meaning of work for American democracy through a study of the writings of the Progressive political theorist Herbert Croly. Drawing primarily on his two principal political writings, *The Promise of American Life* and *Progressive Democracy*, the article interprets his political thought as an attempt to realize democracy by changing the way Americans think about work. Close attention is paid to his views on three topics: occupation, specialization, and administrative organization. According to Croly, a reconceptualization of work could correct the atomizing and conformist tendencies of modern industrial life, could enhance the efficiency and increase the productivity of both managers and workers, and could facilitate the development of an administrative state that would distribute labor in response to public desires and needs. The essay concludes with a discussion of how Croly can help us understand the political challenges and possibilities posed by the contemporary American experience of work.

## [Jane Addams on the Meaning of Work](http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S0034670513000314)

By exploring Addams's lifelong fascination with work, this essay analyzes the ways in which her understanding of work fundamentally shaped her wider political vision. For Addams, work was the foundation of not only a personal sense of identity, but also a collective democratic character. The workplace had the potential to be the model of a cooperative community, providing a venue for social solidarity and civic reciprocity. By working together, Americans would develop a more cosmopolitan and inclusive politics. In short, the essay argues that Addams's political thought was an attempt to revitalize democracy by giving meaning to work. It concludes by suggesting that her arguments can be applied to many contemporary political problems, and that today's democratic theory and practice would be enlivened by a renewed attention to work.

## [John Dewey's Theory of Vocation](http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2300915)

This paper explores the concept of vocation in the political theory of John Dewey. Primarily relying on his political thought from the formative years prior to World War I, and analyzing in particular his lectures to teachers’ organizations, periodical writings, and transcripts of his own seminars at the University of Chicago from this time, it argues that Dewey’s theory of democracy can rightly be understood as being centered on vocation’s role in society. In making this case, the paper focuses on the concept in its relation to work, its role in democratic education, and its meaning for the professions, and more specifically for experts in business and government. The essay concludes by discussing how Dewey’s understanding of vocation can help us reconsider the continuing political challenges and possibilities posed by the contemporary American experience of work.

## [W.E.B. Du Bois on Striving, Self-respect, and Democracy](http://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=2453552)

Social scientists since Tocqueville have noted the central place of ideas about work in the American character. And since Weber, most have emphasized its role as a supporting structure of American capitalism. The recent economic crisis and the sluggish recovery have been the occasion for renewed criticism of the work ethic. This essay suggests that recent critical assessments have ignored strands of the work ethic that sit uneasily with American capitalism. It considers one such strand by assessing WEB Du Bois's views on work. Examining not only his major writings like *Souls of Black Folk* and *Darkwater*, but also his early sociological writings, it places him in the wider context of Progressive theorists of the work ethic. It argues that this overlooked aspect of DuBois's writing actually formed an important conceptual foundation of his democratic thought. The essay analyzes three specific concepts: striving, self-respect, and freedom. For DuBois, striving was a particular attitude toward labor, a desire to realize one's individual talents in service to black Americans. This type of work would rectify the larger problem of double-consciousness, creating instead self-consciousness and self-respect. At the same time, his theory of freedom ultimately was a tragic one, acknowledging that systematic political change was unlikely. In short, the essay contends that DuBois saw striving as the primary democratic practice of an excluded people. It concludes with a discussion of the role of ideas about work in the continued exclusion of black citizens from American democracy.   